In this chapter we're going to be
studying, how to make decisions using if
statements.
We're gonna start out this first lesson by
looking at the way we make comparisons.
And that's using what are called the
Comparison or Relational Operators.
So let's take a look at those.
We're gonna do it, in this lesson in the
interactive shell, start that first.
So, the first of the operators is the
equals operator, or, is equal to.
And it's a very simple one.
It's a double equals sign.
You'll notice that we put two values on
either side.
So we call it a binary operator, cuz it
needs a left hand side and a right hand
side.
And so we compare two values to see if
they're equal.
So clearly, 100 is equal to 100 so it
returns true.
So the relational operators, return a
boolean value, either true or false.
So for example 100 equals 200, will return
false.
It works just as well with strings, hello
equals hello returns true.
Hello equals goodbye, equals false.
And then finally, hello equals hello with
a capital H,
returns false, because, these two strings
are not exactly the same.
So after equality we have greater than,
100 greater than 1, returns true.
A, greater than b, returns false, because
b is actually greater
than a, in what's called lexographic
order, as you see there.
Then we have greater than or equal to, so
100 greater than or equal to 100 returns
true a.
Greater than or equal to b, returns false.
Then we have less than, 100 less than 1,
returns false.
0 less than a 100, returns true, h less
than h, returns false.
And a less then b.
Returns true.
Next is less than or equal to.
So we have, 1 less than or equal to 1
returns true, b less than or equal to c
returns true.
100 less than or equal to 1 returns false.
Then finally we have not equal to.
100 not equal to 1 returns true.
Hello not equal to hello returns false.
So those are the relational operators, at
least
the 1 we'll be studying in this chapter.
We has is equal to, greater than, greater
than
or equal to, less than, less than or equal
to.
And not equal to.
And the thing we have to remember about
the relational
operators, is they are binary operators,
so they require two operands.
And they return a boolean value.
So with that in mind, we're ready to move
to the next
lesson, where we're going to be
talking about ways to combine relational
expressions.
So for example, hello equals to hello is a
relational expression.
We have another set of operators called
the Logical or Boolean operators, that
allow us
to combine two or more relational
expressions, and
return a single Boolean value from those
expressions.
And we're going to look at those operators
in the next lesson.